=pod

=head1 NAME

correlator.c -- A program for calculating values of several different
correlation function estimators using given data and random samples.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

	# Hamilton estimator
	./correlator correlation.dat data.dat random_sample.dat 4

	# Landy-Szalay estimator by default
	./correlator correlation.dat data.dat random_sample.dat

=head1 ARGUMENTS

The following arguments must be given, in this order: C<OUT> C<DATA> C<CMP>.
In addition, C<METHOD> can be given.

=over 4

=item *

C<OUT> -- Filename where the calculated data should be stored. 

=item *

C<DATA> -- Filename where to search for the data for which the correlation
function estimator should be calculated for.

=item *

C<CMP> -- Filename where to search for the binomial random field to use in
the Monte Carlo calculation.

=item *

C<METHOD> -- I<Optional.> Which correlation estimator to use. Valid choices
are:

=over 4

=item * 

1 => Peebles-Hauser (1974) estimator.

=item * 

2 => Davis-Peebles (1983) estimator.

=item * 

3 => Hamilton (1993) estimator.

=item * 

4 => Landy-Szalay (1993) estimator.

=back

=back

=head1 FILE FORMATS

All the files are to be in ASCII format, with numerical fields separated
by whitespaces and newlines for human readability.

=head2 RANDOM SAMPLE

The random sample file should have the following format:

	number of points (N)
	data low bound (3 components, separated by whitespace)
	data high bound (3 components, separated by whitespace)
	point 1 (3 components, separated by whitespace)
	.
	.
	.
	point N (3 components, separated by whitespace)

=head2 DATA FILE

The data file should have a format otherwise identical to the random sample
file, except that the following rows should be added to the very beginning of
the file:

	number of scale bins (N_s)
	bin 1 (2 components, low and high bounds, whitespace separated)
	.
	.
	bin N_s 

=head2 OUTPUT FILE

Result in OUTFILE will have one row for each bin, with the following
columns in this order: bin low bound, high bound, value of ksi, Poisson error

=head1 AUTHOR

Written in 2006 for the benefit of Tuorla Observatory Cosmological Simulations
research group by Pauli Pihajoki.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

 Copyright (c) 2006, Pauli Pihajoki
 All rights reserved.
 Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
       documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

 THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY
 EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
 WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
 DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
 DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
 (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
 LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
 ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
 (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
 SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

=cut
