=pod

=head1 NAME

fieldgen.c -- A program for generating 3 dimensional random binomial fields
suitable for using with the B<correlator> and B<compcorr> programs. The program
uses the Mersenne Twister algorithm for fast 
high quality pseudorandom number generation.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

	# Generate a 200000 point field in output.dat, distributed between
	# (0, 0, 0) and (10, 10, 10), and by using the Mersenne Twister seeded
	# with the number 31337
	./fieldgen output.dat 31337 10 200000

=head1 ARGUMENTS

The following arguments must be given, in this order: 
C<OUT> C<SEED> C<BOX> C<POINTS>.

=over 4

=item *

C<OUT> -- Filename where the generated data should be stored. 

=item *

C<SEED> -- A seed number for the Mersenne Twister algorithm. The number
should be an unsigned integer from 0 to 4294967295 (0 to 2^32-1).

=item *

C<BOX> -- An integer specifying the binomial field box size in MPc. If 
the box size is X, the random 3-vectors will be distributed betweeen
C<(0, 0, 0)> and C<(X, X, X)>.

=item *

C<POINTS> -- Number of points to generate. The number should be an unsigned
integer from 0 to 4294967295 (0 to 2^32-1).

=back

=head1 FILE FORMATS

All the files are to be in ASCII format, with numerical fields separated
by whitespaces and newlines for human readability.

=head2 OUTPUT 

The output file should have the following format, compatible with
the B<correlator> and B<compcorr> programs:

	number of points (N)
	data low bound (3 components, separated by whitespace)
	data high bound (3 components, separated by whitespace)
	point 1 (3 components, separated by whitespace)
	.
	.
	.
	point N (3 components, separated by whitespace)

=head1 AUTHOR

Written in 2006 for the benefit of Tuorla Observatory Cosmological Simulations
research group by Pauli Pihajoki.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2006 Pauli Pihajoki. All rights reserved. 

=cut
