HaloAnalyzer
============

Analysis and visualization toolkit for AMIGA cosmological simulation software.


General Information
===================

HaloAnalyzer is a data analysis package for the AMIGA cosmological
simulation toolkit, found online at <http://popia.ft.uam.es/AMIGA/>.
This software suite is designed specifically for analysis of the output
of AMIGA HaloFinder tool, and uses the AMIGA MergerTree and HaloHistory
tools as well. The suite is written mostly in object Perl, with some
interesting external utilities for two-point correlation and 3D
visualization written in C and C++, respectively.

Some examples of the capabilities of this suite:
* Run AMIGA MergerTree and HaloHistory with one line of code,
  with no information needed from the user.
* Get all halo data in a convenient hash table indexed by redshift.
* Trace changes of halo index through redshift
* Retrieve history of any halo.
* Calculate mass evolution of all halos.
* Find formation times of halos in user specified histogram format.
* Find shared particles between halos of neighbouring redshifts.
* Construct graphical halo merger trees (see e.g. 
  <http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2010A%26A...522A..92E>)

For full documentation, see the docs/ directory. The documentation for
all Perl code is generated from the code itself via the POD tool, and
can be regenerated by running the docs/makedocs.sh script.
Documentation for the C/C++ programs is written in separate .pod files.

The C/C++ code is provided together with Makefiles, which require the
GNU Make program and the Gnu Compiler Collection C/C++ compiler
(gcc/g++) to compile . These Makefiles may or may not work for your
system. Adjusting them to your liking is advised.

Author
======

Pauli Pihajoki <pauli.pihajoki@iki.fi>. If you use this for something,
drop me a note. 

License
=======

All code (Perl & C/C++) in this suite is released under the same license
as Perl itself, so either:

a) the GNU General Public License <http://dev.perl.org/licenses/gpl1.html> 
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 1, or 
(at your option) any later version, 

or

b) the "Artistic License" <http://dev.perl.org/licenses/artistic.html>

This code contains the Mersenne Twister code written by Takuji Nishimura
and Makoto Matsumoto. See mersenne/mt19937ar.h for the respective
license.

