=pod

=head1 NAME

visualize_halos.c and visualize_halodump.c - Programs for visualizing the
data contained in an AHF _halos file or a halodump file. The programs render
a 3d view using OpenGL and faciliate user interaction via keyboard and mouse.
The halos are shown color coded either by formation redshift 
(visualize_halodump) or mass (visualize_halos).
In addition, visualize_halos can animate the view by cycling through the _halos
files passed as the argument.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

	# Visualizing halos with a 1024x768 screen in 32 bit colour
	./visualize_halos -w 1024 -h 768 -d 32 10 SIMU.z0.100.AHF_halos \
	SIMU.z0.000.AHF_halos

	# Visualizing a halodump with the same parameters
	./visualize_halodump -w 1024 -h 768 -d 32 10 \
	SIMU.z0.000.AHF.halodump_halos_with_subhalos.dat

=head1 ARGUMENTS

Both programs recognize these command line arguments, which must be given in
this order: C<[OPTS]> C<BOX> C<HALODUMP/HALOS [, HALOS [...]]>.

=over 4

=item *

C<[OPTS]> -- I<Optional.> A group of POSIX compatible short arguments
controlling the graphic settings of the program.

=over 4

=item *

C<-w> -- The width of the screen to display, in pixels. Default value: 1024.

=item *

C<-h> -- The height of the screen to display, in pixels. Default value: 768.

=item *

C<-d> -- The colour depth of the screen to display, in bits. Default value: 32.

=back

=item *

C<BOX> -- The size of the data box in megaparsecs.

=item *

C<HALODUMP/HALOS [, HALOS [...]]> -- Either a halodump file (for
visualize_halodump), or one or more _halos files (for visualize_halos). 

The visualize_halos program will animate by cycling through the _halos files by
starting at the first one given as the argument and proceeding from there. This
allows controlling the sequence of animation by changing the order of the
arguments.

=back

=head1 MOUSE CONTROL

In both programs, the 3d view is controlled by using the mouse. When the cursor
is over the program screen, pressing left mouse button and moving the mouse
will rotate the view around the center of the box. When the right mouse button
is pressed, moving the mouse up and down will zoom in and out, respectively.

=head1 KEYBOARD COMMANDS

Both programs recognize the following keyboard commands.

=over 4

=item *

C<1/shift + 1> -- Increase/decrease the blue to green colour transition value.

=item *

C<2/shift + 2> -- Increase/decrease the green to red colour transition value.

=item *

C<a/shift + a> -- Increase/decrease the alpha (opacity) value used in rendering
the halos.

=item *

C<f/shift + f> -- Increase/decrease the field of view.

=item *

C<d> -- Toggle parameter info displays on/off.

=item *

C<i> -- Toggle mouse y-axis inversion on/off.

=item *

C<F12> -- Save a screenshot. The screenshots are saved as BMP files with names
C<screenshot_0.bmp>, C<screenshot_1.bmp> etc. The numbering is sequential, and
begins from zero at each fresh program restart. This means that old screenshots
can get overwritten, if they are not moved or renamed beforehand.

=item *

C<ESC> -- Exit the program.

=back

In addition, the visualize_halos program recognizes the following keyboard
commands:

=over 4

=item *

C<SPACE> -- Toggle animation on/off.

=item *

C<LEFT ARROW KEY> -- Go one animation frame backwards.

=item *

C<RIGHT ARROW KEY> -- Go one animation frame forwards.

=item *

C<m/shift + m> -- Increase/decrease colour zero point mass. In other words,
adjusts the location of the low end of the colour scale.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Written in 2006 for the benefit of Tuorla Observatory Cosmological Simulations
research group by Pauli Pihajoki.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

 Copyright (c) 2006, Pauli Pihajoki
 All rights reserved.
 Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
       documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

 THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY
 EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
 WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
 DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
 DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
 (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
 LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
 ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
 (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
 SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

=cut
